This is a program for an ATMega328 oven controller. Power to the heat element (represented by the LED) can be turned on or off by the MCU. The user can select the desired oven temperature with the dial (potentiometer through ADC), and the temperature inside the oven is given by the temperature sensor. The MCU aims to keep the oven temperature approximately equal to the selected temp through determine_heat_state() which returns OFF when the heat element is ON and the oven temp goes above selected temp + 2.5°C and returns ON when the heat element is OFF and it goes below selected temp - 2.5°C – a 5°C hysteresis band. set_heat_state() will also check the smoke state, timer state and door state.
The controller uses timer counter 1 configured with the compare A interrupt. The compare value is set for one second worth of ticks (prescaled). It starts off in a disabled state. The user can press the timer up and down buttons to set a timer value (shown on the TM1637 display), then start the timer with the start/reset button; the pins for these buttons are configured with pin change interrupts. They can still increase/decrease the timer value while in this active state with the up/down buttons. While in the active state the start/reset button can be pushed to disable the timer and reset back to 0. after TIMER1_COMPA decrements the timer value down to 0, timer counter 1 is disabled, but timer_state is still true. At this point the buzzer will sound the timer expired tone, and the user can trigger a reset with the start/reset button, either of the other timer buttons or opening the oven door, which will turn off the buzzer and put timer_state back to false. Consequently, if the timer reaches 0 but the user has already opened the oven door, the buzzer won’t sound and timer_state will be reverted immediately after closing it.
The controller has a door sensor (represented with PR light sensor) that’s configured for an external pin change interrupt. The ISR simply updates the door_open variable to the current state and deactivates the timer state when it has expired. door_open is used by set_heat_state which will set it to OFF when the door is open. It is used by determine_buzzer_state which will turn off the buzzer from either of its two on states.
The MQ2 sensor is used for detected smoke. It is configured to a pin change interrupt for when the detected smoke goes above or below the selected threshold, the ISR will set the two current_smoke_state and smoke_detected variables, it will also perform a direct write to the heat element pin, turning it off if excess smoke is detected. current_smoke_state is used by determine_buzzer_state. smoke_detected can’t be set back to false by software once it has been set to true. It is used by set_heat_state. The user must reset the device to start cooking again. The wiring for turning on the heat element is run through an AND gate. One of its inputs is the heat element pin on the MCU, the other is the digital output of the MQ2, which both the AND gate (through a relay) and the MCU connect to in parallel. If the MQ2 sensor outputs LOW (which it does smoke is high) or is disconnected somehow from the controller, the heat element cannot turn on no matter what the MCU does. 
